URL Pattern API updates (#40674)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/url_pattern_api/index.md

console.log(pattern1.test("https://example.com/index.html")); // true

// without `^` in protocol
const pattern2 = new URLPattern({ protocol: "(https?)" });
console.log(pattern2.test("https://example.com/index.html")); // true
```

The code below demonstrates that it doesn't matter whether or not `$` is specified.

```js
// with `$` in pathname
const pattern1 = new URLPattern({ pathname: "(/path$)" });
console.log(pattern1.test("https://example.com/path")); // true

// without `$` in pathname
const pattern2 = new URLPattern({ pathname: "(/path)" });
console.log(pattern2.test("https://example.com/path")); // true

// with `$` in hash
const pattern3 = new URLPattern({ hash: "(/hash$)" });
console.log(pattern3.test("https://example.com/#hash")); // true

// without `$` in hash
const pattern4 = new URLPattern({ hash: "(/hash)" });
console.log(pattern4.test("https://example.com/#hash")); // true
```

#### Lookahead and lookbehind assertions

Lookahead and lookbehind asserts allow you to specify that text ahead or behind the current parsing position matches a particular pattern, without that match being captured, or the characters being consumed.

There are four types of assertions:

> - `(?=...)`: A positive lookahead assertion specifies a pattern than the following characters must match.
> - `(?!...)`: A negative lookahead assertion specifies a pattern than the following characters must not match.
> - `(?<=...)`: A positive lookbehind assertion specifies a pattern than the preceding characters must match.
> - `(?<!...)`: A negative lookbehind assertion specifies a pattern than the preceding characters must not match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `(?=...)`: A positive lookahead assertion specifies a pattern that the following characters must match.
- `(?!...)`: A negative lookahead assertion specifies a pattern that the following characters must not match.
- `(?<=...)`: A positive lookbehind assertion specifies a pattern that the preceding characters must match.
- `(?<!...)`: A negative lookbehind assertion specifies a pattern that the preceding characters must not match.
```

console.log(patternNoSlash.test("https://example.com/books")); // false
console.log(patternNoSlash.test("https://example.com/books/")); // true
```

If you want to match both then you need to use a match pattern that allows either.
The easiest approach is to use a [group delimiter](#group_delimiters) that contains a forward slash, followed by the optional modifier.
This will match the pattern with or without a terminating forward slash.

```js
const patternOptionalSlash = new URLPattern({ pathname: "/books{/}?" });
console.log(patternOptionalSlash.test("https://example.com/books")); // true
console.log(patternOptionalSlash.test("https://example.com/books/")); // true
```

### Pattern normalization

When a pattern is parsed it is automatically normalized to a canonical form.
For example, Unicode characters are percent encoded in the pathname property, punycode encoding is used in the hostname, default port numbers are elided, paths like `/foo/./bar/` are collapsed to just `/foo/bar`, etc.
In addition, there are some pattern representations that parse to the same underlying meaning, like `foo` and `{foo}`.
Such cases are normalized to the simplest form.

> In this case `{foo}` gets changed to `foo`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case `{foo}` is normalized to `foo`, for example.
```

// Prints `true` as the hostname in the second argument base URL matches.
console.log(pattern.test("/foo/bar", "https://example.com/baz"));

// Throws because the second argument cannot be passed with the object input.
try {
  pattern.test({ pathname: "/foo/bar" }, "https://example.com/baz");

> } catch (e) {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
} catch (e) {console.log(e.message)}
```

Reviewer: If you like this format, I'll leave it unresolved for you to check later

### Accessing matched group values

The following example shows how input values that match pattern groups can later be accessed from the {{domxref("URLPattern/exec","exec()")}} result object.

> The `input` property is the string that is matched by the pattern: in this case`cdn.example.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `input` property is the string that is matched by the pattern: in this case it's `cdn.example.com`.
```

The `groups` property contains captured groups, indexed by number for unnamed groups, and name for named groups.

> In this case there is just one unnamed group for the wildcard property, with the value `cdn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, there is only one unnamed group for the wildcard property, with the value `cdn`.
```
